prints here.
We're going to discuss a boat range,
function off your python to simply arranged with some parenthesis.
It is a breathing function with your fight on.
Fine.
Which is used to generate only indigenous generate Indigenous on that as a list,
it is going to generate some indigent numbers as a list.
Right?
Let me weapon my common lane on first off,
all I'm going toe enter into my python to actually,
we're discussing about Python three.
But I want to show you this.
Arrange or port with your fight on two as well,
right?
Let me bring range off some number.
You can take any number.
Sit output and let me bring range off some number this range off.
Number number fire.
How given.
So,
how many wells were getting $5 starting from Geo magazine value You were arrange number.
What are you are providing that minus one range of 30123 numbers.
But mags,
the number is three minus one.
That's what you are getting here,
right?
Fine.
No.
Let me come out from your fight on two under entering to fight on three.
Here also.
I'm tryingto print.
Arrange off fight sorry,
it's my spell.
Mystic Ranger fight,
then print range off three as well.
See in your piped onto directly or getting output as the list off the running range
function.
But whereas in Fight on three,
you are not getting directly a list,
but this is a arrange object,
but you can convert you arrange object or put India list by using type conversion procedure
that is list off range off.
Your number is going to get your list now.
Finally,
with help off your range function,
you're going to get a list off values or a sequence numbers final.
They all are indigent numbers,
right?
No,
Actually,
there is a small syntax with you are arrange function that is range start,
stop and then step.
So ranges.
Taking three arguments,
right,
So in there,
in there if you are very here Previously,
whenever if you run something like range fire range three,
you're not profiting.
Three arguments were providing only one argument Whenever.
If you provide only one argument,
like in this way,
that is called stop argument value,
then what about your start on step by default?
By default,
I mean,
if you don't provide any values for he was start then.
That is always Jiro.
And if you don't provide anywhere before he was step,
that is one.
Then what it is to start on step like,
let me explain you once again on your common life.
Suppose days if I try to print because this is fight on three.
That's way to show you your output directly as a list.
I need to convert your range Object in the A list.
That's what I'm doing here.
Suppose you were probably injure.
Fight one of the vilest you're getting right judo.
1234 I'm providing only one argument here.
So I know what if you provide only one argument for your range function that is always stop
value.
Right then what a bold start.
Start immensity with what number you're starting,
Geo.
There is a default value.
If you don't provide any start number,
it is going to start with Jiro on then from there onwards five values.
Yes,
You're getting finally $5.
And what is the maximum number?
It was stopped minus one is the maximum number.
Right now I am giving Jiro Come off.
I see The difference is their indifference nor difference whether you are going to provide
start as Jiro or even if you don't provide a start value by default.
It is zero on waterboard Step Step is nothing but difference between any 262 numbers.
What is the difference between one and zero?
One,
21113 and 114 and 131 right?
The difference between any two successful numbers either step So how you arranged function
is going to generate a number.
A bite afforded will take start number Jiro if you don't provide at the time.
Also default is Jiro,
then Jiro plus one is the next number.
One plus one toe.
There is a second number two plus +133 plus +14 Likewise,
you can increase your numbers up to some numbers,
but judo to fight five values range is five minutes.
05 Ella's yard to get that means your range from is going to count.
One,
2345 Upto this violation is going to give right now.
Let me provide with step as a in your range function.
If I come of one,
that is a step So start stop on the instep.
Is there any difference nor difference?
Let me provide some.
Do you know 22 step as one seed.
Output judo step means one minus 01 to minus 113 minus one.
That's what step No.
I want to gender numbers with the step as to what is the meaning for that start number
Digital,
then Geo place to there is a second number.
I need then to place to 44 plus 266 plus two Yate.
That's what I need on,
like ways.
One of the numbers you're going to get eight.
Let me.
Right.
First of all,
all possible numbers.
Well,
14 16 18 2022 like ways.
But what is the my Exume number?
How when you are I mean,
stop number 20 if it is 20.
Stop number Always.
You're going to get stop minus one as the maximum value inside off your list.
That means 19.
But if you start with Joe and if I step as to nobody will get 19 you'll get 18.
Is the magazine number right after rating?
If I step two,
you're going to get 20.
But going to you should not take range function is going to give magazine number minus one
.
Actually,
you need to get up to 19.
But you're generating with steppers too.
That's why magazine number is I didn't know.
See the output?
That's what.
Now,
if you want to get up to 20 just take 21 when you will get up to 20.
But now values are Jiro 2468 10 12 14 16 1920 with step two not only step,
we can take any step.
Let me take three as a step.
Let me next about some seven.
So,
Joe starting number judo plus 7 +77 Place 7 14 14 plus 7 21 But one day one is actually you
were steps Stop!
Stop Value stop minus one before 21 yard to get it.
I mean up to 14.
You are getting right.
This is the uses off your range function.
Not only that,
let me do it.
Simply print Range off.
Let's say I want to print 10 Comotto starting value 10 ending value to Is it possible?
I know what XX is.
We're going toe from right to left.
Sorry.
Left to right in your X axis,
right if you take your X axis,
you're always trying to write your data from left to right somewhere it anyhow,
year somewhere to you How year it's not possible,
right?
That's why what you're going to get that by default you're going to get.
See,
that would put let me print it as a list so that you can see the result empty.
But if I provided step see that first I need to get somewhere lewd.
Then I want to decrease with minus one.
No,
see that some very how 10 some very how to.
But what I'm saying is I can't get more than 10 because if I take 10 come into range.
But what I'm saying start with,
then decrease directly or saying there don't go towards right by default.
You were data will go while writing from left to right.
But don't go towards right.
That's what we're saying with step as minus one.
That's when now you're getting decreasing data,
right?
Fine.
Now let me do one more thing.
I want to get data from suppose minus two to minus tan by the fourth step is one right?
Let me read your x axis somewhere here home minus stand.
So I'm very hard.
It as minus two by the fourth step is one Suppose if you start with the minus tool,
what is your step?
Bless one.
So next year,
days minus to plus one means minus one.
This is not in this range.
So again,
actually,
if you're writing minus two minus two to minus 10 means we're not coming in this way by
default your pipe and we'll go from left to right.
But forcefully,
How to say,
please go towards the left.
That is with a step minus one might not only minus when you can take minus two or minus
tree whatever it may be,
that's a right fine.
So this is the way how you can generate your list off values based on your requirement.
Know how a small requirement generate?
Even numbers suppose from between 1 200 simply I can do it.
Bring list.
Arrange off from 1 201 200 in this range.
I want to get even numbers.
Right.
So what is the first even numbers?
Let me take Jiro then for Gina.
Just are too No.
See the result these all out even the most you are getting between 1 200 Then your today
would not want to see the result.
Now you're going to get property with numbers.
Now,
I want to get our numbers.
Start with one.
Then you're going to get our numbers between 1 200 They I last point.
See if you have a list.
Let's say I have a list of called some random numbers.
It may be any value,
right?
Directly injured off printing your and pair list.
If I want to go with for Luke,
I can take in this way.
No.
For each in your list,
I can print one by one each.
See,
that isn't the same day.
You can also use range function year because range or put is finally a list.
No,
I'm begging.
Supposed range of four not see that.
But you're going to get data from 0 to 3 now in your brain function by default.
It is in terrible anywhere for Luke.
No,
with this,
we have a small requirement in this way.
What is?
That means I generally have a list to call any data.
Something like this.
Okay,
so that is how many values you have in your list,
you can find out with help off lend logical.
You can find out nothing to count it.
Fight Then if we are having five or lose what are the index values for your list?
It will end this fight if Atlantis fly by default index values are 0 to 4.
We know that even if you can count it fighters in next Jiro 1234 You don't before Now you
fino lend if you know land without counting without counting the index values 40 were given
list range off lent off.
Your list is biting for it is going toe you you were index value.
So if you are given list And here this is the range object If you want to see in detail
what are the values inside off that?
Just try to convert that as a list and see the output.
No,
With help off range automatically,
you can find out the index of Alice where you're given list without county.
No.
Based on this concept,
what I'm doing is see that,
See if I want to print first value from your list one out today in this week,
then second do 1234 But using for loop already we know this concert,
but using range function I'm telling that for each index,
anyone range off lent off your list.
First of all,
I'm printing index.
What is the next you're going to get that is there in your each elex,
right?
Just observe that would put what you're going to get.
You're going to get automatically your next values.
No.
After this,
I want to print based on this index value or based on the values from your range function.
I want to print the values off my list.
See,
How can I print value?
It was too.
Or anything.
You want a list with the help off your index from your range function,
try to understand.
Here,
See the output woman.
Let me save it and done it can see the output you're getting automatically your values.
So here we are not taking my list.
I have taken only the length off your list on I'm able to find index values from your range
function.
Then what I'm doing is I'm bringing your index.
Then I am taking you at least logically,
I'm substituting your index value from this Because this is now Jiro 1234 index values one
by one I'm taking with your each index Variable that index variable.
I'm stop shooting with help off your list so that you are going to get my list off.
Jiro,
that is nothing.
About five miles east off one my list off 23 and four.
Right?
So,
logically,
you can ableto get your list off values based on index And you are generating your your
index values based on your range function your help off your range function.
Okay.
So,
guys,
we will use in so many cases you arrange function well,
practicing with your scripts for time.
Me?
These are the basics to work with the world.
Arrange function.
Okay,
so ranges very,
very helpful in your for Lou.
Okay.
Okay,
guys,
Thank you for watching this video.